If you caught my post earlier this morning for Pumpkin White Chocolate Chip Cookies, you know that I am having a hard time wrapping my mind around the fact that today is October 31st. I mean Kroger has pumpkins and mums directly next to mini Christmas trees and cinnamon scented pine cones – I think there should be some kind of law against this nonsense.

Even though I feel like I need an October do-over, I did discover and rediscover some great products that I’ve been excited to share with you. So without further October whining, let’s get into it.

1. Elizabeth and James Nirvana Perfume: I was browsing the fragrance section at Sephora a couple of months ago and happened upon a display for Nirvana Perfume. If you’re not familiar with the brand, it was created in 2007 by Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen. Wait, hold on, it’s not at all what you’d expect. Although the two fragrances (White and Black) are quite different, when blended together they create the most amazing scent that I’ve ever worn. I’ve literally been tracked down numerous times by strangers to ask what perfume I was wearing. It’s that good. I purchased the roller balls of both scents and just layer them for a custom scent.

2. Square Biscuit Cutters: I have a thing for bar desserts, but I am pretty much horrible at cutting a straight line, so I often use biscuit cutters to create symmetrical shapes. From Banana Bars and brownies, you’ll get nice even squares with these biscuit cutters. I love this set because it has a plain edge and comes with 4 different cutters, so you have a variety of sizes.

3. Samsung NX300: As much as I love my Canon Digital SLR camera, the thing is heavy with the lens attached. I wanted something a little more streamlined to take on the go photos of Elle and this Samsung NX300 is just perfect for capturing those types of images. Its lightweight, modern design take gorgeous high quality photos and video while an interchangeable lens mount offers a lot of versatility. And being able transfer images from the camera to my phone through wi-fi is most definitely my favorite feature!

4. Pumpkin Sugared Doughnut Candle: No October Friday Faves would be complete without a candle. This Pumpkin Sugared Doughnut Candle smells so yummy, I picked up 3 more on my last visit to Bath and Body Works. Now, if only someone would make me a doughnut that tastes as good as this candle smells! FYI the Pumpkin Cupcake is pretty fantastic as well.

5. Too Faced Chocolate Bar Palette: I’m a self-professed make-up hoarder, so trust me when I say that I own a lot of makeup – especially eye shadow palettes. This Chocolate Bar palette from Two Faced is most definitely one of the most used items in my beauty arsenal. I’ve already “hit pan” on a couple of the neutral shades. And the fact that these shadows smell like the most delicious cocoa ever is totally a bonus.

6. Clarisonic Skin Cleansing System: I’ve had a Clarisonic for a few years, but ended up stashing it away while I was pregnant and just recently reacquainted myself with it. I replaced the brush and so thrilled with how much better my skin has started looking only after a couple week of use. They’re definitely pricy, but giving myself a mini spa treatment every night kinda makes it worth it!

7. The Skinnytaste Cookbook: Skinnytaste has long been my go-to site for healthy dinner options. Gina’s site is loaded with healthy, approachable, and delicious options for all occasions. Her debut cookbook is full of those same types of recipes and has quickly become my favorite and most used cookbook. 
