STOCKHOLM—Pop artist Taylor Swift has asked Spotify AB to pull all of her music from its music-streaming service, the Anglo-Swedish company said Monday.

In a post on the company’s blog on Monday, Spotify said it regretted the artist’s move and added that it hoped Ms. Swift would “change her mind.”

“We love Taylor Swift, and our more than 40 million users love her even more—nearly 16 million of them have played her songs in the last 30 days, and she’s on over 19 million playlists,” Spotify said in the blog post.

Ms. Swift’s catalog withdrawal comes several months after the pop star’s record label asked Spotify to make her new album, “1989,” available on the streaming service only outside the U.S. While Ms. Swift is a giant star in her home country, she is still trying to expand her fan base abroad, according to a person familiar with the matter. Spotify denied that request, this person said. The streaming service requires all participating artists to make their music available in all of the 58 countries where it operates.

In August, Ms. Swift released the first single off of ”1989”—“Shake It Off”— and put it on Spotify a week later, including in the U.S.

Spotify and Ms. Swift’s Nashville label, Big Machine Label Group, had no further discussion of “1989” until last week. Then, last Tuesday, Ms. Swift released the entire album—but only for actual sale, not streaming.

Spotify, seeking to avoid the blame for that, according to a person familiar with the company’s thinking, notified its customers on Ms. Swift’s album page: “The artist or their representatives have decided not to release this album on Spotify. We are working on it and hope they will change their mind soon.”

Last Wednesday, Big Machine then notified Spotify that it would be withdrawing her entire catalog from the service.

Labels can pull an individual artist’s work from Spotify with only a few days notice, though most labels have long-term contracts with Spotify that prevent them from abruptly withdrawing all their music.

Spotify has been in regular contact with Big Machine in recent months about the label’s other artists, including Florida Georgia Line and the Band Perry. But it had no discussion over Ms. Swift’s new album since her camp’s initial request for limited-market play on the service.

A spokeswoman for Ms. Swift didn’t respond to a request for comment. Big Machine declined to comment.

The dust-up comes as streaming services appear to be shaking up the economics of the music industry. Streaming has been expanding rapidly, on Spotify as well as on rivals such as Apple Inc.’s Beats Music. At the same time, music download sales at Apple’s iTunes Store have dropped more than 13% this year.
Related

Apple iTunes Sees Big Drop in Music Sales
For Taylor Swift, the Future of Music Is a Love Story

Since its inception in 2008, Spotify has faced debate over whether artists and music-rights holders get their fair share from the music-streaming business model. Subscribers pay about $120 per year, and Spotify pays out 70% of its overall revenue to record labels and publishers, paying between $0.006 and $0.0084 per stream. Labels and publishers then pay the artists a percentage, which varies depending on each artist’s contract. Spotify, defending itself, this year has made public a load of data explaining how its business model works.

It was unclear whether the decision to remove Ms. Swift’s catalog from Spotify was made by the singer or by executives at Big Machine, where she is by far the biggest act. But a person familiar with the thinking of the label’s founder and CEO, Scott Borchetta, said the move was consistent with his view on music streaming services, which he thinks don’t pay enough.
ENLARGE

Typically, record companies, not artists decide which services get which music. Some superstar acts retain such control. A few of those big names, including the Beatles and Garth Brooks, have steered away from signing on with Spotify, while artists such as Thom Yorke of the band Radiohead have called for a boycott of the service over what they call unfair payment practices. Some of Mr. Yorke’s solo music has been pulled from Spotify, although Radiohead music remained. But other acts such as Led Zeppelin and Pink Floyd have joined Spotify, after resisting initially.

Meantime, Big Machine is seeking a buyer, according to people familiar with the matter, and is looking more than $200 million, the New York Post reported over the weekend. Big Machine’s records are distributed by Vivendi SA’s Universal Music Group. Lofty sales of “1989” could make the label more attractive to bidders against a backdrop of shrinking sales across the industry.
